---
layout: post
cover: 'assets/images/forest_path.jpg'
title: Guide to Object Oriented Programming
date:   2016-04-14 10:18:00
tags: ruby 
subclass: 'post tag-test tag-content'
categories: 'casper'
navigation: True
logo: 'assets/images/logo.png'
---

In a procedural language, behavior and data are separate. Data gets packages into variables and pass around to the behaviors. But an OO language combines them, and we have what is referred to as an object. Objects have behavior and may contain data. They invoke behavior in one another by sending each other messages.

Code that is easy to change:

* Changes have no unexpected side effects
* Small changes in requirements require correspondingly small changes in code
* Existing code is easy to reuse
* The easiest way to make a change is to add code that in itself is easy to change.

Code should be:

* Transparent The consequences of change should be obvious in the code that is changing and in distant code relies upon it
* Reasonable The cost of any change should be proportional to the benefits the change achieves
* Usable Existing code should be usable in new and unexpected contexts
* Exemplary The code itself should encourage those who change it to perpetuate these qualities

The best way to meet this criteria is to make sure your classes each have a single, well defined responsibility. Classes should do the smallest possible useful thing.

````ruby
class Gear
  attr_reader :chainring, :cog
  def initialize(chainring, cog)
    @chainring = chainring
    @cog = cog
  end
  def ratio
    chainring / cog.to_f
  end
end
puts Gear.new(52, 11).ratio # -> 4.72727272727273
puts Gear.new(30, 27).ratio # -> 1.11111111111111
````

I pulled this example directly out of POODR by Sandi Metz, because it is such a beautiful example. The class has 2 instance variables, and the only method uses both. It is a great representation of a simple class that has a single responsibility. We could determine its single responsibility by asking the class about its behaviors, “Please Mr. Gear, what is your ratio?” is a great question, “Please Mr. Gear, what is your tire size?” is not! If the gear class was able to respond to the tire size question, it has too many responsibilities. Responsibilities that may get caught up against other reasonable questions such as "what is your ratio?". We don't want our ratio to change when the tire size changes, we don't want a `ArgumentError: wrong number of arguments` error when we ask about the ratio and didn't provide a tire size. Another way is to try and describe the class in one sentence.

cohesion: the sticking together of particles of the same substance.

Classes have high cohesion when they are also of a single responsibility. When everything that the class does, is highly related to its purpose.

Always wrap instance variables in accessor methods instead of directly referring to them. Hide variables, even from classes that define them. `attr_reader` is an easy way to create a encapsulating method.

````ruby
class Gear
  attr_reader :chainring, :cog
  def ratio
    chainring / cog.to_f # <-- good
  end
  def ratio
    @chainring / @cog.to_f # <-- bad
  end
end
````
Changing the ivars to methods allows for changes when the class changes. If we have to take into account a `tire` for some reason, we can make the changes very easily instead of having to change the `@cog` ivar everywhere that its written.

````ruby
def cog
  tire? ? tire * @cog : @cog
end
````

While it is sometimes expedient to think of parts of your application as behavior-less data, most things are better thought of as plain old objects

Having overly complex instance variables leads to doom, the referencing code has to know more of the inner structure of the ivar to access the data it needs. Code that recieved an ivar that looked like `[[622, 20], [622, 23], [559, 30]]` would need to know that there is an inner array, then call upon those indexes for it values. Code such as `@nested_array.each {|array| tire_sizes << array[1]}` would have to be everywhere in order to access the array's data. The references are leaky, they would escape encapsulation, and eventually become a maintenance nightmare. It would be practical to use `Struct` class to organize our complex data. 

````ruby
Wheel = Struct.new(:rim, :tire)
def wheelify(data)
  data.collect {|cell| Wheel.new(cell[0], cell[1])}
end
def gear_inches
  ratio * wheel.diameter
end
Wheel = Struct.new(:rim, :tire) do
  def diameter
    rim + (tire * 2)
  end
end
````

Now we have an array of `Structs` that we could call `wheel.tire` on. Ruby defines Struct as “a convenient way to bundle a number of attributes together, using accessor methods, without having to write an explicit class.”. If the input changes, the only place to change the code is in this one place. This allows it to be more readable and intention revealing. We can also define `Struct` methods by using the syntax in the lower portion of the example. If our class has too many responsibilities, we can isolate them in a `Struct` class, and move them into thier own class when we are good and ready.

````ruby
def gear_inches
  ratio * (rim + (tire * 2)) # bad
end
def gear_inches
  ratio * diameter # good
end
def diameter
  rim + (tire * 2) # good
end
def gear_inches
  ratio * Wheel.new(rim, tire).diameter
end
Wheel = Struct.new(:rim, :tire) do
  def diameter
    rim + (tire * 2)
  end
end
````

One of the dependencies that stick out is the `Wheel.new` instantiation. If class name `Wheel` every changes, it must also change in our Gear class. When hard coded `Wheel`, the `Gear` class can only calculate `gear_inches` using the `Wheel` class, it will not collaborate with any other object. Class shouldnt know the name of the other class. It just needs an object that responds to `#diameter`. It would be better to pass in the `Wheel` class when we initialize the 
`Gear` class `Gear.new(52, 11, Wheel.new(26,1.5))`, this is know as Dependency Injection. 








